# Backdrop CMS Code of Conduct
 
## 1. Purpose
 
A primary goal of the Backdrop CMS community is to be inclusive to the largest
number of contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible.
As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming
environment for all, regardless of ability, ethnicity, gender, sexual
orientation, sexual preferences, socioeconomic status, geographic location, or
religion (or lack thereof).
 
This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in
our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior.
 
We invite all those who participate in the Backdrop CMS community to help us
create safe and positive experiences for everyone.
 
## 2. Open Source Citizenship
 
A supplemental goal of this Code of Conduct is to increase open source
citizenship by encouraging participants to recognize and strengthen the
relationships between our actions and their effects on our community.
 
Communities mirror the societies in which they exist. Positive action is
essential to counteract the many forms of inequality and abuses of power that
exist in society.
 
If you see someone who is making an extra effort to ensure our community is
welcoming, friendly, and encourages all participants to contribute to the
fullest extent, we want to know.
 
## 3. Expected Behavior
 
The following behaviors are expected and requested of all community members:
 
  * Participate in an authentic and active way. In doing so, you contribute to
    the health and longevity of this community.
  * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions.
  * Attempt collaboration before conflict.
  * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech.
  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert
    community leaders if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress,
    or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.
  * Remember that community event venues may be shared with members of the
    public; please be respectful to all patrons of these locations.
 
## 4. Unacceptable Behavior
 
The following behaviors are considered harassment and are unacceptable within
our community:
 
  * Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another
    person.
  * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory
    jokes and language.
  * Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
  * Posting or threatening to post other people's personally identifying
    information ("doxing").
  * Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation,
    race, religion, or disability.
  * Inappropriate or unauthorized photography or recording.
  * Inappropriate physical contact. You should have someone's consent before
    touching them.
  * Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes, sexualized comments or jokes;
    inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed sexual advances.
  * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
  * Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations.
 
## 5. Weapons Policy
 
No weapons will be allowed at Backdrop CMS community events, community spaces,
or in other spaces covered by the scope of this Code of Conduct. Weapons include
but are not limited to guns, explosives (including fireworks), and large knives
such as those used for hunting or display, as well as any other item used for
the purpose of causing injury or harm to others. Anyone seen in possession of
one of these items will be asked to leave immediately, and will only be allowed
to return without the weapon. Community members are further expected to comply
with all state and local laws on this matter.
 
## 6. Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior
 
Unacceptable behavior from any community member, including sponsors and those
with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.
 
Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.
 
If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior at an event, the event
organizers may take any appropriate action, up to and including a temporary ban
or permanent expulsion from the event without warning (and without refund in the
case of a paid event).  An "approproate action" should protect other members of
the community, and should be not a punitive attempt or a punishmnent for bad
behavior.
 
## 7. Reporting Guidelines
 
If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, please notify a
community organizer as soon as possible. Send an email to info@backdropcms.org
if you don't know where else to turn. See the
[Reporting Guidelines](https://github.com/backdrop-ops/policies/blob/master/reporting_guidelines.md)
about what information to include.
 
Community organizers should be available to help community members engage with
local law enforcement, or to otherwise help those experiencing unacceptable
behavior feel safe. In the context of in-person events, organizers can also
provide escorts as desired by the person experiencing distress.
 
## 8. Addressing Grievances
 
If you feel you have been falsely or unfairly accused of violating this Code of
Conduct, you should notify the Backdrop CMS Project Management Committee with a
concise description of your grievance. Your grievance will be handled in
accordance with existing governing policies. [LINK_TO_POLICY]
 
[NOTE: Every organization's governing policies should dictate how you handle
warnings and expulsions of community members. It is strongly recommended that
you mention those policies here or in Section 7 and that you include a mechanism
for addressing grievances.]
 
## 9. Scope
 
We expect all community participants (leaders, contributors, sponsors, adopters,
and other guests) to abide by this Code of Conduct in all community venues
-online and in-person- as well as in all one-on-one communications pertaining to
community business.
 
This code of conduct and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable
behavior occurring outside the scope of community activities when such behavior
has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of community
members.
 
## 10. Contact info
 
Please contact Backdrop CMS at info@backdropcms.org to open a new issue for the
Backdrop CMS Project Management Committee to evaluate.
 
## 11. License and attribution
 
* This Code of Conduct was forked from the Citizen Code of Conduct is
distributed by [Stumptown Syndicate](http://stumptownsyndicate.org) under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).
* Portions of text derived from the
[Django Code of Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/) and the
[Geek Feminism Anti-Harassment Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy).
 
_Revision 2.3.1 PROPOSED March 2017._
